Create staged file for Release Post 4.2 (#5916)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/release-4.2.md

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43686
    category: Search
  - description: Code Insights data points that do not contain any results will display zero instead of being omitted from the visualization for clarity. This only applies to insight data created after 4.2.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43166
    category: Code Insights
  - description: "A new experimental GraphQL query, `permissionsSyncJobs`, now lists the states of recently completed permissions sync jobs and the state of each provider to check that syncing is working as intended. The TTL of entries can be configured with `authz.syncJobsRecordsTTL`."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44387
    category: API
  - description: Repositories can now be ordered by size on the repo admin page to make it easy to find the largest synced repos.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44360
    category: Admin
---

Sourcegraph 4.2 is here! This month, we are kicking off significant work to improve the scale, speed, and security of Sourcegraph.

> The Sourcegraph platform is built to make developers' lives easier. With a great code intelligence platform, developers are able to find and understand code fast, stay in flow, and focus more on what they love doing: writing great code. In order to do this, Sourcegraph needs to fit the requirements of all sizes of engineering teams. These requirements include operating across massive numbers of repositories, being able to search millions of commits, and baking security into every part of the product.

Author: @ryphil Thoughts on this lead-in on themes?

To accomplish these things and deliver a product for even the most demanding engineering teams, Sourcegraph is putting extra focus on scale, speed, and security, and you will see these themes surface frequently over the next several releases.

<Badge link="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log#on-premises" text="Admin" color="violet" size="small" />

> #### Get enhanced security visibility with audit logs

Author: @vrto Could you take a look at this highlight please?

Reviewer: LGTM 👍

Sourcegraph supports two types of secrets: namespaced secrets that can only be accessed by their owner, and global secets that site admins can set and make available to all users on an instance.

This feature is in Beta, and feedback is very welcome. Tweet at us, or drop a comment in this [issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/44597)!

<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

#### Smart Search helps with search queries to find more results, faster

To help you find information in your codebase faster than ever, we're introducing Smart Search, a new query assistant that activates when a search returns no results. It can be turned on with the new lightning bolt toggle <span style={{display: "inline-flex", verticalAlign: "middle", margin: "2px"}}><img style={{width: "18px", height: "18px"}} src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/about.sourcegraph.com/blog/2022/smart-search-bar-lightning.png"/></span> in the search bar.

> Smart Search helps find search results that are likely to be more useful than showing "no results" by trying slight variations of a user's original query. Smart Search automatically tries alternative queries based on a handful of rules (we know how easy it is to get tripped up by query syntax). When a query alternative finds results, those results are shown immediately. [See the documentation](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/explanations/features#smart-search) to learn more about Smart Search behavior and configuration.

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS I've factored out the example and other details, the link here will be live when https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44778 is merged.

Reviewer 2: merged

Author: Thank you!

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.2 release"
publishDate: 2022-11-29T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 4.2 introduces the new audit log, executor secrets for server-side Batch Changes, and Smart Search to make it easier to find the search results you're looking for."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.2"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.2/sourcegraph-4-2-hero.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.2/sourcegraph-4-2-hero.png
changelogItems:
  - description: The search input has a new recent searches button, and recent searches can be cycled via the up/down arrow keys for quick access to previous searches.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44544
    category: Search

>   - description: "When the `content:` filter is used in a query, it now behaves more predictably by only searching file contents. Previously, file contents, paths, and repos were searched. However, as before, if `type:` is also set, the `content:` filter will search for results of the specified `type:`."

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - is repos referring to repositories or the "repo" filter? If the former, it should be repositories.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43442
    category: Search

>   - description: When rendering a file which is backed by Git LFS, Sourcegraph now displays a page that links directly to the file on the codehost. Previously we rendered the LFS pointer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - description: When rendering a file that is backed by Git LFS, Sourcegraph now displays a page that links directly to the file on the code host. Previously we rendered the LFS pointer.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43686
    category: Search
  - description: Code Insights data points that do not contain any results will display zero instead of being omitted from the visualization for clarity. This only applies to insight data created after 4.2.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43166
    category: Code Insights
  - description: "A new experimental GraphQL query, `permissionsSyncJobs`, now lists the states of recently completed permissions sync jobs and the state of each provider to check that syncing is working as intended. The TTL of entries can be configured with `authz.syncJobsRecordsTTL`."
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44387
    category: API

>   - description: Repositories can now be ordered by size on the repo admin page to make it easy to find the largest synced repos.

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - should repo admin page be repository admin page? And largest synced repositories?

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="/batch-changes" text="Batch Changes" color="blue" size="small" />

#### Secrets in server-side Batch Changes (Beta)

It's common to use secrets in batch changes steps. Developers can use secrets in batch changes to authenticate to a private registry to install packages, create tickets from within a batch change, or make authenticated API calls to other services. In local runs, secrets can be either hardcoded in the batch spec or loaded from environment variables using [`step.env`](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/batch_changes/references/batch_spec_yaml_reference#steps-env), but until now, there was no robust and secure way to manage secrets for server-side runs.

To solve this, we're releasing [executor secrets](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/executor_secrets). You can now define secrets to be passed to server-side runs, and those secrets can be referenced as `env` variables in the batch change spec.

> Sourcegraph supports two types of secrets: namespaced secrets that can only be accessed by their owner, and global secets that site admins can set and make available to all users on an instance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph supports two types of secrets: namespaced secrets that can only be accessed by their owner, and global secrets that site admins can set and make available to all users on an instance.
```

> This feature is in Beta, and feedback is very welcome. Tweet at us, or drop a comment in this [issue](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/44597)!

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - do we frequently use exclamation points?

<a href="https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/executor_secrets" className="tw-not-italic tw-flex tw-items-center tw-mb-sm">Docs<OpenInNewIcon className="tw-ml-xxs" size={18} /></a>

<br />
<Badge link="/code-search" text="Code Search" color="cerise" size="small" />

> #### Smart Search helps with search queries to find more results, faster

Reviewer 3: @iskyOS - are we branding "Smart Search" as a proper noun product/feature?

> To help you find information in your codebase faster than ever, we're introducing Smart Search, a new query assistant that activates when a search returns no results. It can be turned on with the new lightning bolt toggle <span style={{display: "inline-flex", verticalAlign: "middle", margin: "2px"}}><img style={{width: "18px", height: "18px"}} src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/about.sourcegraph.com/blog/2022/smart-search-bar-lightning.png"/></span> in the search bar.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To help you find information in your codebase faster than ever, we're introducing a new query assistant that activates when a search returns no results. It can be turned on with the new lightning bolt toggle <span style={{display: "inline-flex", verticalAlign: "middle", margin: "2px"}}><img style={{width: "18px", height: "18px"}} src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/about.sourcegraph.com/blog/2022/smart-search-bar-lightning.png"/></span> in the search bar.
```

> Smart Search helps find search results that are likely to be more useful than showing "no results" by trying slight variations of a user's original query. Smart Search automatically tries alternative queries based on a handful of rules (we know how easy it is to get tripped up by query syntax). When a query alternative finds results, those results are shown immediately. See the documentation to learn more about Smart Search behavior and configuration.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The query assistant helps you find search results that are likely to be more useful than showing "no results" by trying slight variations of a user's original query. When activated, it automatically attempts alternative queries based on a handful of rules (we know how easy it is to get tripped up by query syntax). When a query alternative finds results, those results are shown immediately. See the documentation to learn more about the behavior and configuration.
```

<img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/about.sourcegraph.com/blog/2022/smart-search-example.png"/>

Note that if the original query found results (which depends on the code it runs on), Smart Search has no effect. Smart Search does not otherwise intervene (or interfere with) search queries if those queries return results, and Sourcegraph behaves as usual. 

It is sometimes useful to check for the _absence_ of results (we _want_ to see zero matches). In these cases Smart Search can disabled temporarily by toggling the button in the search bar. To disable Smart Search permanently by default, set `"search.defaultMode": "precise"` in settings.

It is not possible to customize Smart Search rules at this time. So far a small number of rules are enabled based on feedback and utility. They affect the following query properties:

- Separate patterns with `AND` (pattern order doesn't matter)
- Patterns as filters (e.g., apply `lang:` or `type:symbol`  filters based on keywords)
- Quotes in queries (run a literal search for quoted patterns)

> - Patterns as Regular Expressions (check patterns for likely regular expression syntax)

Reviewer 2: @iskyOS feel free to cut/edit/arrange as you like!

Reviewer 2: yes, good point. I can factor it out. Since it looks like we are pushing put the release cut (and so this post too), I should have time to do that today. Sound good?

Author: Yes, sounds good to me!

---
title: "Sourcegraph 4.2 release"
publishDate: 2022-11-29T10:00-07:00
description: "Sourcegraph 4.2 introduces..."
tags: [blog, release]
slug: "release/4.2"
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.2/sourcegraph-4-2-hero.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/release-post/4.2/sourcegraph-4-2-hero.png
changelogItems:
  - description: The search input has a new recent searches button, and recent searches can be cycled via the up/down arrow keys for quick access to previous searches.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44544
    category: Search

>   - description: "When the `content:` filter is used in a query, it now behaves more predictably and only searches file contents. Previously, file contents, paths, and repos were searched. However, as before, if `type:` is also set, the `content:` filter will search for results of the specified `type:`."

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - description: "When the `content:` filter is used in a query, it now behaves more predictably by only searching file contents. Previously, file contents, paths, and repos were searched. However, as before, if `type:` is also set, the `content:` filter will search for results of the specified `type:`."
```

Minor nit - feel free to ignore

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43442
    category: Search
  - description: When rendering a file which is backed by Git LFS, Sourcegraph now displays a page that links directly to the file on the codehost. Previously we rendered the LFS pointer.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43686
    category: Search
  - description: Code Insights data points that do not contain any results will display zero instead of being omitted from the visualization for clarity. This only applies to insight data created after 4.2.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/43166
    category: Code Insights

>   - description: "A new experimental GraphQL query, `permissionsSyncJobs`, now lists the states of recently completed permissions sync jobs and the state of each provider to check that syncing is working as intended. The TTL of entries can be configured with `authz.syncJobsRecordsTTL`."

Reviewer 5: Is there a reason some descriptions have quotes and some don't?

Author: Yeah, there is -- if I remember right, the rendering format for the changelog doesn't like the ` characters, and the quotes fix that. The quotes don't get rendered on the blog either.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44387
    category: API
  - description: Repositories can now be ordered by size on the repo admin page to make it easy to find the largest synced repos.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/44360
    category: Admin

>   - description: Access token creation, GitHub aned GitLab OAuth login attempts, and OIDC login attempts are now part of the audit log.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - description: Access token creation, GitHub and GitLab OAuth login attempts, and OIDC login attempts are now part of the audit log.
```
